---
title: "Creative Intro to PREMchain"
date: 2025-02-14
---
Premchain is a system for authentic communication with qualified trust for collaboration to create wellness and provide everything we need. It’s envisioned to replace the blockchain technology which underpins cryptocurrencies like bitcoin, ethereum and others. The difference is that Premchain addresses the biggest weaknesses of technology: Greed and separation. The elephant in the room is the coming of the quantum apocalypse. At the level of our innermost feelings we all know that we are all one. If a system causes just one persons’ suffering we are all dragged down to the level of the weakest link. Technology today enables suffering and controls a society where to win someone has to lose. This system champions the psychopaths and the bullies who in past ages cheered gladiators murdering the slaves for entertainment. Powerful platforms have arisen from our past social control by violence that serve the rulers who divide us to control us.

We each are powerful when we cooperate. We must not pity those who fear the rulers. We can all extend a hand of help to free those we love. There is a contradiction. We are strong when we are free. We are stronger when we have the assistance we need and see our inner truth. We are strongest when we are helping others.

Trauma runs deep in the stories of our invented national histories. No one chooses to be at war with their neighbour. It is not a choice if it is forced upon us. Humans are not evil and all people are born innocent. When a child grows up surrounded by evil they will internalise the zero-sum rules that someone has to lose for someone else to win. Neuroplasticity offers us every one of us a chance to change those internalised rules.

There are no good guys or bad girls. The best men know the heart of those who do bad because they once were the same and discovered the necessity to overcome their fear before it destroyed themselves and all who are around them. The evil witches were once sweet, innocent, kind, fair and faithful and got hurt and so fought back against a system which mistreated them. Hurt people hurt people. There is no flag that makes people hate. There is no god who demands we kill. There are people searching for safety from harm. The biggest harm of all is a human perception of threats which is five times more effective and ingrained than our desire for connection. Yet it is connection, love and compassion that grows societies. An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth will make the whole world blind. We know that we must trust to survive and this is too often a hard won truth.

In 1985 as an eleven-year-old boy I encountered the internet for the first time. I encountered idealists who believed that sharing information alone would end all human ignorance. We believed together that we were creating a new era and environment for peace for all of humanity. In my 20s I saw it turned into another shopping mall. Appealing to our desires for stimulation, fear, distraction and endless churning of unsatisfying and temporarily enjoyable rubbish. Why? I studied, I learned, I got involved in helping corporations make their systems work better. I got to see the interior of these opaque structures and to do my job they opened to me and explained in detail how they operate. I found the wise ones too. Those who shared both why it was this way and how it could be better, how suffering could finally end for all of humanity. This is ancient knowledge. At an archeological site, during the covid lockdown, with space and time I saw a way to turn the tide.

We’ve always connected as human societies in a deferential and hierarchical way. In fear we’ve allowed the strongest to abuse us to keep us safe from the other bad strong ones. Those at the apex know the truth that they are the same as the other “bad” guy and to keep control over their underlings they couldn’t share this vulnerable truth. It was a virus. The time has come for an antidote to this virus and that is premchain.

Premchain is a way for us each to be strong and free. I don’t ask you to trust it. I say that you can prove for yourself that it is trustworthy. To be healthy, wealthy and wise we need to be connected to others who can do that which we cannot do for ourselves. The greatest mark of honesty is to be able to admit you can’t do everything yourself. When we ask for help we want to feel that this help is freely given without manipulation or to receive something hidden in return. We can only accept the help if a cost is not hidden that we don’t know if we can pay. It offers too a way to give that the giving is its own reward.

I am sure that if you are reading it then the stories and voices of your mind are listing all the reasons why everything I am saying is wrong, impossible, or it’s a trick. I ask you to love that voice. Be thankful and grateful for it for keeping you safe. We are warriors. No one should have respect, understanding or compassion without showing themselves to be worthy of it. We are all worthy of this. There is nothing wrong with money, or ownership or keeping ourselves safe. The problem is the system of global capitalism that we have now is too easy to corrupt. I believe what we need is a transparent, open and fair system that rewards work, shares ideas that work and helps people to find their wellness, prosperity, safety and purpose. Premchain is a simple way to make that work.

Premchain is not an app, a website, a book, a social media post or a platform. Premchain is a simple protocol. Premchain can be added to any of these to make them fair, accountable, trustworthy, organic and to show where the light and love is. A protocol is something like email where no one owns the whole system but there are very simple rules that allow people and platforms to interact. Premchain adds something that email doesn’t have and that is an ability to make everyone who uses it valuable and help them to know their value. It will not steal your attention. The structure is simple and empowers you to share what you need and to receive.

We’ve become conditioned to enter endless searches for relationships and resources. Each result only temporarily satisfies and leads into the next search. This protocol allows what we offer and what we need to organically grow together efficiently and effectively. Small learning opportunities each iteratively saving us effort and bringing us closer to each other. Every person has a choice about what they share and with who. No longer do we need to present a one-dimensional view of ourselves to the world. Our self-esteem need never again be in the hands of others. Each time we could have done better the tools to improve are naturally presented.  We can be authentic. We can be supported. We can be supportive. Each of us can become infinitely valuable. Each and every inner guide becomes our influencer. We can reconnect with ourselves to become valuable to those around us. Our truth is within.

Premchain represents love. Prem is one of the most ancient words for love. It is also an acronym. Parameters, Relationships, Events & Methods. The chain joins them all. Parameters allow us to filter, connect by tagging in a consistent and cohesive way. Relationships allow us to discover trust. Events are what happen and can be of value to some or many. Methods are the ways to make. This way absolute security is guaranteed. Only what needs to be shared needs to be visible. The basic principle is need and not protection. Each time we share only because this generates a benefit within a trusted community.

Presently we are being offered machine intelligence as the next “big thing” and our liberator from drudgery. This will always be artificial and the hidden hand of the big system keeping us all small. Premchain is a realistic alternative that empowers human intelligence and places faith in that spark in humanity that knows how to connect, how to solve our challenges and face our destiny together. Based on proven open source principles that demonstrate unprecedented abilities to collaborate efficiently and effectively.

My intention is to create a space where this theory can be tested and shown working as easily on a paper card as a large database. Welcome to the start of this project with me. I need your help and I am not afraid to ask. Here we can develop a system for authentic communication with qualified trust for collaboration to create wellness and provide everything needed.

With love.
